hello I'm Tanya Beckett President Biden
has appealed for the more than 1 million
Palestinians Sheltering in Rafa in the
southern Gaza Strip to be protected once
again urging Israel not to carry out a
big assault without a credible plan for
the safety of civilians he was speaking
after meeting the Jordanian Monarch King
Abdullah in Washington the King has
repeatedly pushed for a full truce to
end the conflict that started when Hamas
attacked Israel on over October the 7th
on Monday morning a series of Israeli
air strikes there killed at least 70
people with Israel warning of an
impending ground offensive more than
half of gaza's population now live in
Rafa the potential for a ground campaign
has sparked alarm from Israel's allies
including the United States as The King
and I discussed today the United States
is working on a hostage deal between
Israel and Hamas which would bring a
immediate and sustained period of common
to Gaza for at least 6 weeks which we
could then take the time to build
something more enduring nearly 100,000
people have been killed injured or are
missing the majority our women and
children we cannot afford an Israeli
attack on Rafa it is certain to produce
another humanitarian catastrophe the
situation is already unbearable for over
a million people who have been pushed
into RAF since the war started we cannot
stand by and let this continue we need a
lasting ceasefire now this war must
end for more analysis on King abdullah's
visit to Washington here's our North
America correspondent namia ikbal this
was a very significant meeting in that
uh King Abdullah is the first Arab
leader to meet President Biden since
October the 7th and the King has been
very open about what he thinks should be
happening and he's laid those goals out
to President Biden we heard it in his
statement he wants an immediate
long-lasting ceasefire he also wants
humanitarian Aid to be sent into Gaza
he's worried about the military
operation in Rafa and he also wants a
long-term solution a two-state solution
these are all issues that President
Biden has also raised um and King
Abdullah is meeting President Biden
where the tone has slightly changed in
Washington uh last week President Biden
issued a a rare rebuke of Israel in
which he said the military operation
Gaza had gone over the top critics have
pointed out that there has been no
practical change however in America's
approach they they continue to give
military aid to Israel uh but the king
will be hoping to use his influence with
America uh Jordan is incredibly
important as a regional Ally to the
Americans uh the king also enjoys a very
close relationship with America he takes
pride in his close relationship with
President Biden all the presidents
before him but it is a it is a very
difficult tricky balancing act because
in Jordan there has been much unrest
amongst a lot of people uh there's been
Street protests because of what's
happening in Gaza many calling on uh the
Jordanian uh leadership to abandon its
peace treaty with Israel to abandon its
defense agreements with America that's
not likely to happen uh the King will
want to use his influence so this
meeting with President Biden has been a
very important role of the dice in that
sense in order to make his feelings
heard to
America we can now live cross live and
speak to Dr Alam Salah who is senior
electure in politics and international
relations at Australian National
University but is joining us today from
leads in the north of England welcome to
the program we've heard about the
concerns from King Abdullah and also
President Biden they are by no means
alone what would be the Diplomatic
consequences of an assault on
Rafa well definitely would have many
different consequences first of all
diplomatically speaking uh it would
internationalize and regionalize the
conflict into uh Egypt involving Egypt
that means uh learning from the past
Egypt knows that uh uh hundred thousands
of refugees U moving to to to to Egypt
would have uh security consequences like
what happened in the early 1970s when
Palestinian uh refugees have caused and
posed threat in for for Jordan
internally that means of course many
militants might move to Egypt uh with
the refugees and this is something that
Egypt cannot uh accept politically
speaking uh it would uh stop any kind of
chance for the ceasefire we know that
the United States kares and and Egyptian
officials are gathering today in in
Cairo to to to discuss the six week
ceasefire and this would be uh
definitely compromise such uh attempt
economically speaking uh uh this would
have some economic B for for Cairo like
what happened in 2011 onwards when 100
thousands of Syrian refugees moved to
Lebanon and turkey uh this is also
something that that Egypt is not ready
to pay for um uh this is uh also U
difficult for for Cairo to accept simply
because they it is very it will be very
uncertain whether these refugees uh will
be allowed to return to to Gaza one day
or if any when so this might be very
prolonged uh process that might uh uh
undermines uh security economy and
political situation of uh um Egypt in
such a war so this then puts added
pressure on Egypt to add momentum to the
peace process what realistically can it
do what can it bring to the table well
uh uh of course uh it's it's very
complicated it's is a multier issue over
1.3 million Palestinians are gathering
in in an area smaller than 64 kilometers
Square uh uh and and this might end with
a humanitarian catastrophe of course
with a security catastrophe but for Tel
Aviv of course uh they believe that they
have started a war and if they stop it
here it would be an unfinished game and
therefore they cannot accept any kind of
uh compromise with with this part of uh
Gaza because they believe many militants
Hamas militants are amongst these uh uh
over 1 million people gathering in in in
the southern part of Gaza Dr Alam Salah
thank you very much indeed